i want to talk to you guys for a second
about
fighting yesterday's battles and
insecurity
so the first thing to understand is that
like
you know be careful about what makes you
feel good and what makes you feel bad
because a lot of times we have hunger
and that hunger is to like
right or wrong from like yesterday
or a decade ago or two decades ago
right it's an insecurity that's born
like when we're young
and then what happens is we carry that
insecurity we like feel a particular way
about ourselves right like we're not
attractive or we're not worth loving or
we're stupid or we're smart which can
also be an insecurity
and then what happens is like we want to
we do everything we can to reassure
ourselves
that that insecurity is false right so
if you're
if you think you're smart and you're
insecure about your intelligence
then you won't ever really apply
yourself
because you'd rather half asset and get
a c
then do your best and get a b and so you
look for reassurance around that
insecurity
if you're in a relationship for example
like you need to hear other people tell
you hey like
do you really love me and so you seek
reassurance and there's that hunger
right like you want other people to tell
you
that yeah you're worth being with you're
awesome you're beautiful
or you run around on the internet and
you
you know talk about how smart you are in
theoretical physics because you want
other people to appreciate your
intelligence
you need that appreciation and so the
tricky thing about insecurity is it's
like a hunger inside you that needs to
be fed from the outside
and so you go outside you look for i'm
going to get it fed over here i'm going
to get fed over here
i'm going to flex on these guys i'm
going to stomp these noobs
i'm going to show everyone
and the crazy thing is that the things
that you need to show
everyone are the things that you don't
believe about yourself
you're looking to solve that insecurity
on the outside
you're looking for their responses
to show you that the insecurity is false
because you believe it yourself
but you're afraid that it's true so you
go to other people and the problem is
that kind of hunger can be satisfied for
a time by reassurance
but it's like a band-aid because the
insecurity comes from within
and so anything that you do from the
outside is not gonna fix it
and that's what we see right like the
person who needs to be reassured in a
relationship needs to be reassured the
next day and the person who thinks
they're really smart and flexes on these
noobs
has to flex on some other noobs tomorrow
because the internet is not like those
people don't flex on like egotistical
people on the internet aren't
egotistical one day
and then they disappear no they live on
the internet for their entire lives and
they're
they're flexing on everyone as much as
they can because they believe
something about themselves that they
don't want to be true
so the crazy thing is like how do you
deal with that and the first thing is
stop feeding it from the outside
because here's the crazy thing when you
have an insecurity and you feed it from
the outside
what happens to things that you feed
they grow
and so each time you seek that
reassurance you're gonna need more
of it the next time and you're gonna
need more of it the next time
and the more you rely on outside things
the more i know this sounds
crazy the more you become dependent
on those outside things you need those
outside signals that's what you rely on
to feel good about yourself and then you
wind up with these kinds of
situations where you feel wonderful one
day and you feel like crap another day
and what's the difference it's how
you're treated by the outside world
your happiness is not dependent on
yourself it's dependent on other people
and so then what you do is you sign away
the rights to control your life to the
outside world
and then you're not in control
life is taking you wherever it wants to
take you you feel powerless other people
make you feel a particular way
you're a victim to their feelings and
their whims
so what do you do what do you do about
this
it's hard but you start by going to the
source of the insecurity and recognize
that
if you're confident if your confidence
in yourself is lacking the only place
it's going to come from is within
if you're insecure about your appearance
no amount of reassurance by the outside
world is going to make that go away
if you're insecure about your capability
about your worth about your value
no amount of the outside world is going
to be able to teach that to you
so what you've got to do is sit with it
right so like look at yourself in the
mirror and then like
look at yourself and this be like okay
where is where is the ugliness and you
may see it
you may see it right away you look at
yourself in the mirror you'll be like oh
my god
this guy's hideous and then notice how
you feel and sit with that feeling and
tolerate it tolerate the hunger
tolerate it sit with it
and then something magical will happen
it's going to be a waiting game
it's going to try to feed thoughts into
your head
be careful don't give in to those
thoughts put your focus on something
else
so go and find like a candle
and then like look at so what i want you
to do is place a mirror
and place a candle in front of the
mirror and then look at the
look at your reflection in the mirror
and then look at the candle
and then look at the candle and put your
entire attention on the candle
and then notice that as your attention
goes onto the candle
the hunger within you the thoughts of
judgment of your own appearance
will begin to subside and then you step
back into the arena you look at your
reflection again
and notice all of those thoughts come up
and then turn your attention to the
candle and with each of those moments
the hunger will start to subside it'll
start to melt away because you're not
feeding it
and if you do that practice enough the
insecurity will dis
will dissolve with it all you guys have
to do is stop feeding it
bring it up face the hunger and stop
feeding it
you can even do with food if you have a
temptation with food watch what happens
to your desire
get some kind of food or get a coke or
whatever you kind of struggle with and
look at it
notice your desire come up and then turn
your attention to something else
and then look at the thing again notice
it come up and turn your attention to
something else
and eventually learn how to tolerate
the bad feelings on the inside and as
you learn how to tolerate them as you
learn how to
sit with them you will start to accept
them and they'll start to dissolve
and the insecurity will dissolve with it
so stop fighting yesterday's battles
today because that's what we see a lot
of
right everyone else made fun of you so
now you've got to show the rest of the
world how awesome you are
it's yesterday's battles it's not
today's
and it ends up creating all kinds of
these like weird problems in your life
because
you start to be treat people in a way
that's kind of bizarre
and is like dependent on how you felt
some time ago
so stop fighting yesterday's battles
today and the second thing is
stop fighting internal battles on the
outside
if you have an insecurity nothing in the
outside world is going to take that away
that's a battle that has to be fought
in here so if you want to do that that's
how you deal with insecurity
in terms of meditation practice i
actually encourage you guys to do what i
just said
so to actually take a candle and go and
sit
in front of a mirror and look at
yourself in the mirror and see what you
think about yourself
and then look at the candle and then
look at the mirror
let those thoughts come up and tolerate
sit with the person that you are
because you're not a bad person but it's
when you refuse to hang out with
yourself and you distract yourself with
alcohol or video games or whatever
that you start to like slip away be with
yourself
see who you are because i guarantee you
that
it's not nearly as bad as you think it
is if you guys need a little bit of help
with this kind of stuff
that's what we made our coaching program
for right because
people want time with dr k but
unfortunately i'm a little bit busy and
i can't reach everyone
the good news i know this sounds crazy
but it turns out that if you look at
outcomes the coaches tend to do
as well as i do in terms of actually
improving people's lives
i'm not saying that you're going to have
an emotional catharsis within the first
session that's probably not gonna happen
but people do have emotional catharsis
through our coaching program pretty
consistently it's just
the coaches work a little bit slower
than i do but at the end of
eight twelve or sixteen weeks we tend to
actually
help our clients the same amount so
they're basically as good as i am
so if you guys need help with that
that's why we started the coaching
program
and we're building additional things for
you guys
more stuff like what we're doing